README.md, before:

# browserHash

A lightweight wrapper to make digests from the
[Web Crypto API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_Crypto_API)
a little more pleasant to use. Hash strings, ArrayBuffers, and TypedArrays
directly in the browser with zero dependencies or other overhead.

> **⚠ WARNING: This library is not a security tool.**
>
> Browser-hash is not intended for cryptographic purposes and should not be
> used as a substitute for proper security system design.

## Table of Contents

- [Installation](#installation)
- [Usage](#usage)
    * [browserHash](#browserhash-1)
    * [isBuffer](#isbuffer)
    * [stringToBuffer](#stringtobuffer)
    * [bufferToHex](#buffertohex)
    * [bufferHash](#bufferhash)
- [Compatibility](#compatibility)
- [Tests](#tests)
- [License](#license)

## Installation

```bash
npm install --save browser-hash
```

## Usage

### browserHash

```javascript
import browserHash from "browser-hash";

let name = "Ishmael";

browserHash(name).then(console.log);
// 1aa0fcc1147088ab255380f60b7d1b6394fd447a33ef5a067c188b79f9b81d94
```

#### `browserHash(strOrBuffer, [algo="SHA-256"])`

_Parameters:_

- **`strOrBuffer`** - The value to hash. Can be a string, an ArrayBuffer, or a
  TypedArray (`Uint8Array`, `Uint16Array`, etc). Throws an error if passed any
  other type of value.
- **`algo`** _(optional)_ - The name of the hashing algorithm to use. Supported
  values are:
  * `"SHA-1"`
  * `"SHA-256"` _(default)_
  * `"SHA-384"`
  * `"SHA-512"`

_Returns:_

- A Promise that resolves to the specified hash, formatted as a hexadecimal
  string.

A lightweight wrapper around
[SubtleCrypto.digest](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/SubtleCrypto/digest),
`browserHash` asynchronously hashes a string or buffer. All resulting digests
are formatted as hexadecimal strings for convenience.

If you wish to use a different algorithm than the default SHA-256, specify the
name of the algorithm as the second parameter.

```javascript
let name = "Ishmael";

browserHash(name, "SHA-1").then(console.log);
// 5cf59925a1926d4907a6bf56f42f0355b34a5812
```

ArrayBuffers and TypedArrays can hashed the same way as strings.

```javascript
let data = Uint8Array.from([80, 101, 113, 117, 111, 100]);

browserHash(data).then(console.log);
// 01c66c73fdc47f95e37e12bdbd637c07d6ce116eb5409d188b6baa4c23ab0e3a
```

### isBuffer

```javascript
import { isBuffer } from "browser-hash";

let name = "Ishmael";
let data = Uint8Array.from([80, 101, 113, 117, 111, 100]);

console.log(isBuffer(name));
// false

console.log(isBuffer(data));
// true

console.log(isBuffer([1, 2, 3]));
// false
```

#### `isBuffer(val)`

_Parameters:_

- **`val`** - The value to check.

_Returns:_

- A boolean. Returns `true` if the value is an ArrayBuffer or TypedArray,
  `false` otherwise.

In addition to the default `browserHash` function, some of the utilities used
internally by this library are provided as named exports for convenience.

The `isBuffer` function simply checks if a value is an ArrayBuffer or
TypedArray.

### stringToBuffer

```javascript
import { stringToBuffer } from "browser-hash";

let data = stringToBuffer("Pequod");

console.log(data);
// Uint8Array(6) [80, 101, 113, 117, 111, 100]
```

#### `stringToBuffer(str)`

_Parameters:_

- **`str`** - The string to convert to a `Uint8Array`. Throws an error if
  passed a non-string value.

_Returns:_

- A UTF-8 encoded `Uint8Array`.

`stringToBuffer` is a very thin wrapper around
[TextEncoder.encode](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/TextEncoder/encode).

### bufferToHex

```javascript
import { bufferToHex } from "browser-hash";

let data = Uint8Array.from([80, 101, 113, 117, 111, 100]);

console.log(bufferToHex(data));
// 506571756f64
```

#### `bufferToHex(buffer)`

_Parameters:_

- **`buffer`** - An ArrayBuffer or TypedArray to convert into a hex string.

_Returns:_

- The binary data from the buffer, formatted as a hexadecimal string.

Convert buffers to hex strings for readability and portability.

### bufferHash

```javascript
import { bufferHash } from "browser-hash";

let name = "Ishmael";

bufferHash(name).then(console.log);
// Uint8Array(32) [26, 160, 252, 193, 20, 112, 136, ...]
```

#### `bufferHash(strOrBuffer, [algo="SHA-256"])`

_Parameters:_

- **`strOrBuffer`** - The value to hash. Can be a string, an ArrayBuffer, or a
  TypedArray (`Uint8Array`, `Uint16Array`, etc). Throws an error if passed any
  other type of value.
- **`algo`** _(optional)_ - The name of the hashing algorithm to use. Supported
  values are:
  * `"SHA-1"`
  * `"SHA-256"` _(default)_
  * `"SHA-384"`
  * `"SHA-512"`

_Returns:_

- A Promise that resolves to the specified hash, formatted as a `Uint8Array`.

Identical to the default `browserHash` function, but skips converting the
digest to a hex string, instead returning a `Uint8Array` directly. Useful if
you want to do further binary operations on the digest.

## Compatibility

Compatible with any browser that supports
[Web Crypto](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/SubtleCrypto/digest),
[TextEncoder](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/TextEncoder/encode),
and
[JavaScript modules](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Guide/Modules).
Basically all modern browsers and _not_ Internet Explorer.

## Tests

This repo includes some units tests of the basic functionality in the
[spec/](./spec/) directory. To run the tests, first clone this repo and install
the dev dependencies:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/delventhalz/browser-hash.git
cd browser-hash
npm install
```

Then run the tests:

```bash
npm test
```

The repo is also linted using ESLint and a modified version of the
[AirBnB Style Guide](https://github.com/airbnb/javascript). To run the linter:

```bash
npm run lint
```

## License

[MIT Licensed](./LICENSE)

Commit message:

Link to more info about non-cryptographic digests
Just to be extra clear about what this library is for, and what it is
not for. MDN's write-up about non-cryptographic usage is really quite
good. It outlines both the use cases browser-hash is intended for, and
the pitfalls of going beyond those use cases.

README.md, after:

# browserHash

A lightweight wrapper to make digests from the
[Web Crypto API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_Crypto_API)
a little more pleasant to use. Hash strings, ArrayBuffers, and TypedArrays
directly in the browser with zero dependencies or other overhead.

> **⚠ WARNING: This library is not a security tool.**
>
> Browser-hash is not intended for cryptographic purposes and should not be
> used as a substitute for proper security system design. Learn more about
> non-cryptographic use of Web Crypto's `digest` method
> [on MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_Crypto_API/Non-cryptographic_uses_of_subtle_crypto).

## Table of Contents

- [Installation](#installation)
- [Usage](#usage)
    * [browserHash](#browserhash-1)
    * [isBuffer](#isbuffer)
    * [stringToBuffer](#stringtobuffer)
    * [bufferToHex](#buffertohex)
    * [bufferHash](#bufferhash)
- [Compatibility](#compatibility)
- [Tests](#tests)
- [License](#license)

## Installation

```bash
npm install --save browser-hash
```

## Usage

### browserHash

```javascript
import browserHash from "browser-hash";

let name = "Ishmael";

browserHash(name).then(console.log);
// 1aa0fcc1147088ab255380f60b7d1b6394fd447a33ef5a067c188b79f9b81d94
```

#### `browserHash(strOrBuffer, [algo="SHA-256"])`

_Parameters:_

- **`strOrBuffer`** - The value to hash. Can be a string, an ArrayBuffer, or a
  TypedArray (`Uint8Array`, `Uint16Array`, etc). Throws an error if passed any
  other type of value.
- **`algo`** _(optional)_ - The name of the hashing algorithm to use. Supported
  values are:
  * `"SHA-1"`
  * `"SHA-256"` _(default)_
  * `"SHA-384"`
  * `"SHA-512"`

_Returns:_

- A Promise that resolves to the specified hash, formatted as a hexadecimal
  string.

A lightweight wrapper around
[SubtleCrypto.digest](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/SubtleCrypto/digest),
`browserHash` asynchronously hashes a string or buffer. All resulting digests
are formatted as hexadecimal strings for convenience.

If you wish to use a different algorithm than the default SHA-256, specify the
name of the algorithm as the second parameter.

```javascript
let name = "Ishmael";

browserHash(name, "SHA-1").then(console.log);
// 5cf59925a1926d4907a6bf56f42f0355b34a5812
```

ArrayBuffers and TypedArrays can hashed the same way as strings.

```javascript
let data = Uint8Array.from([80, 101, 113, 117, 111, 100]);

browserHash(data).then(console.log);
// 01c66c73fdc47f95e37e12bdbd637c07d6ce116eb5409d188b6baa4c23ab0e3a
```

### isBuffer

```javascript
import { isBuffer } from "browser-hash";

let name = "Ishmael";
let data = Uint8Array.from([80, 101, 113, 117, 111, 100]);

console.log(isBuffer(name));
// false

console.log(isBuffer(data));
// true

console.log(isBuffer([1, 2, 3]));
// false
```

#### `isBuffer(val)`

_Parameters:_

- **`val`** - The value to check.

_Returns:_

- A boolean. Returns `true` if the value is an ArrayBuffer or TypedArray,
  `false` otherwise.

In addition to the default `browserHash` function, some of the utilities used
internally by this library are provided as named exports for convenience.

The `isBuffer` function simply checks if a value is an ArrayBuffer or
TypedArray.

### stringToBuffer

```javascript
import { stringToBuffer } from "browser-hash";

let data = stringToBuffer("Pequod");

console.log(data);
// Uint8Array(6) [80, 101, 113, 117, 111, 100]
```

#### `stringToBuffer(str)`

_Parameters:_

- **`str`** - The string to convert to a `Uint8Array`. Throws an error if
  passed a non-string value.

_Returns:_

- A UTF-8 encoded `Uint8Array`.

`stringToBuffer` is a very thin wrapper around
[TextEncoder.encode](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/TextEncoder/encode).

### bufferToHex

```javascript
import { bufferToHex } from "browser-hash";

let data = Uint8Array.from([80, 101, 113, 117, 111, 100]);

console.log(bufferToHex(data));
// 506571756f64
```

#### `bufferToHex(buffer)`

_Parameters:_

- **`buffer`** - An ArrayBuffer or TypedArray to convert into a hex string.

_Returns:_

- The binary data from the buffer, formatted as a hexadecimal string.

Convert buffers to hex strings for readability and portability.

### bufferHash

```javascript
import { bufferHash } from "browser-hash";

let name = "Ishmael";

bufferHash(name).then(console.log);
// Uint8Array(32) [26, 160, 252, 193, 20, 112, 136, ...]
```

#### `bufferHash(strOrBuffer, [algo="SHA-256"])`

_Parameters:_

- **`strOrBuffer`** - The value to hash. Can be a string, an ArrayBuffer, or a
  TypedArray (`Uint8Array`, `Uint16Array`, etc). Throws an error if passed any
  other type of value.
- **`algo`** _(optional)_ - The name of the hashing algorithm to use. Supported
  values are:
  * `"SHA-1"`
  * `"SHA-256"` _(default)_
  * `"SHA-384"`
  * `"SHA-512"`

_Returns:_

- A Promise that resolves to the specified hash, formatted as a `Uint8Array`.

Identical to the default `browserHash` function, but skips converting the
digest to a hex string, instead returning a `Uint8Array` directly. Useful if
you want to do further binary operations on the digest.

## Compatibility

Compatible with any browser that supports
[Web Crypto](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/SubtleCrypto/digest),
[TextEncoder](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/TextEncoder/encode),
and
[JavaScript modules](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Guide/Modules).
Basically all modern browsers and _not_ Internet Explorer.

## Tests

This repo includes some units tests of the basic functionality in the
[spec/](./spec/) directory. To run the tests, first clone this repo and install
the dev dependencies:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/delventhalz/browser-hash.git
cd browser-hash
npm install
```

Then run the tests:

```bash
npm test
```

The repo is also linted using ESLint and a modified version of the
[AirBnB Style Guide](https://github.com/airbnb/javascript). To run the linter:

```bash
npm run lint
```

## License

[MIT Licensed](./LICENSE)
